It was called the Economic Opportunity Act, a measure intended to kick-start the sputtering post-recession economy in New Jersey, particularly in its struggling cities. The state would award lucrative tax breaks to businesses if they moved to New Jersey or remained in the state, creating and retaining jobs.

But before the bill was approved by the Legislature, a series of changes were made to its language in June 2013 that were intended to grant specific companies hundreds of millions of dollars in additional tax breaks, with no public disclosure, according to interviews and documents obtained by The New York Times.

Many of the last-minute changes to drafts of the bill were made by a real estate lawyer, Kevin D. Sheehan, whose influential law firm has close ties to Democratic politicians and legislative leaders in New Jersey.

Mr. Sheehan was allowed by lawmakers to edit drafts of the bill in ways that opened up sizable tax breaks to his firm’s clients, according to a marked up copy of the legislation obtained by The Times, which identifies Mr. Sheehan’s changes.

Nearly six years later, the fallout from the legislation has set off an uproar in the State Capitol over allegations that the state’s $11 billion in economic development programs have been poorly managed corporate giveaways that have brought few benefits to New Jersey.

One of the clauses added by Mr. Sheehan to the text of the bill helped a client, Holtec International, an energy technology company, to claim a tax credit of $260 million in 2014 to build a new headquarters at a port in Camden, N.J.

The state’s own analysis at the time indicated that for the $260 million tax credit to Holtec, the net benefit to taxpayers would be tiny: $155,520 in potential benefits for the state over 35 years, including new tax revenue, as well as the creation of 235 new jobs and the retention of 160 jobs.

That is about $650,000 in tax credits for each job.

Another clause that Mr. Sheehan inserted into the draft called for a tax credit for a “qualified business facility located in a priority area housing the United States headquarters and related facilities of an automobile manufacturer,” the draft of the legislation shows.

That language appeared intended to benefit just one company, Subaru of America, which ended up reaping a $118 million tax credit from the state, according to interviews and documents.

Mr. Sheehan, whose role in the drafting of the legislation has not been disclosed before, declined to be interviewed for this article.

His law firm, Parker McCay, said in a statement that it “was asked by policymakers, including those in the Legislature, to review this legislation and offer input and suggestions on ways it could be strengthened.”

Mr. Sheehan did not register to lobby on the 2013 Economic Opportunity Act, and the firm maintained that its work on the legislation did not amount to lobbying.

Parker McCay’s chief executive is Philip Norcross, whose brother is George Norcross, an insurance executive who is widely considered the most powerful Democratic political leader in southern New Jersey.

Another brother is Donald Norcross, a former Democratic state senator who represented Camden and who is now a United States representative.

As a result of the 2013 legislation, George Norcross’s insurance firm, Conner Strong & Buckelew, also benefited, receiving approval for an $86.2 million tax credit to relocate to an 18-story office tower in Camden.

In all, under the legislation, the state has granted at least $4.8 billion in tax credits extending well into the future, and it appears that the changes made by Mr. Sheehan helped to significantly increase the program’s cost.

The bill was approved overwhelmingly by the Democratic-controlled Legislature and signed by the governor at the time, Chris Christie, a Republican, who in recent weeks has contended that the state’s economic development programs have been a major success.

Mr. Christie and other supporters of the legislation said the programs were the only way to lure companies to economically depressed areas like Camden, a city of 75,000 on the Delaware River across from Philadelphia.

The Times’s findings about how the Economic Opportunity Act was approved were based on interviews with officials, lawmakers, lobbyists, corporate executives and others, as well as an extensive examination of government records.

A task force appointed by Gov. Philip D. Murphy, a Democrat elected in 2017, is examining whether the economic development programs, including those created under the Economic Opportunity Act, have delivered significant benefits or have been tilted toward helping politically connected firms and companies.

